## what is recursrion?

* recursion is a special types of function that call itself.
* example : funtion fun() calling itself

```c
int fun(){
    fun();      // fun function calling itself
}
```

## How Does Recursion Differ from Iteration?

## What is the base case in recursion? Why is it important?
* A conditon or statement that use to stop recursion process. 
* If we do not use base case the function never stop calling itself, so the program never stop.
```c
void fun(int n){
    if(n==1) return;  //this is the base case
    fun(n--);
}
int main(){
    fun(5);
}
```

## Can you explain a simple example of recursion, like calculating the factorial of a number?
* calculating factorial <br> 
let's say we want to find factorial of 5.
```c
int fact (int n){
    if(n==1) return 1;
    return n*fact(n-1);
}
int main(){
    int ans = fact(5);
}
```
Fact function will multiply 5 with the result of fact(4)ans return the ans to fact(5) state. <br>
Again it will multiply 4 with the result of fact(3) ans return the ans to fact(4) state. <br>
The process will contine unless n==1, in this case it will return 1.

```
State 1:
n = 5
return 5*fact(4);

state 2:
n = 4
return 4*fact(3);

State 3:
n = 3
return 3*fact(2);

state 4:
n = 2
return 2*fact(1);

state 5:
n = 1
return 1;

state 4:
return 2*1 = 2;

State 3:
return 3*2 = 6;

State 2:
return 4*6 = 24;

State 1:
return 5*24 = 120;

ans = 120
```

## What is tail recursion, and how does it differ from regular recursion?

* In tail recursion means recursive call is the last operation of the function.
* In tail recursion there is no additional work recuire after the recursion call, no additional work is required after the recursive call.

## Why Does Recursion Sometimes Lead to a Stack Overflow Error?
* Each recursive call adds a new frame to the call stack. If the recursion is too deep or if there's no base case, the call stack grows beyond its limit, leading to a stack overflow.
* DP can reduce the possibilty of stackoverflow in some cases (like- fibonacci sequence).

# What are some common use cases for recursion?
* DP (Fibonnacci sequence, )
* Tree, BST, Segment and graph
* Backtracking algoithms
* Mathematical calculation (factorial, gcd)















